CSCB58 Project Report: Winter 2019

Team Member A
-------------
First Name: Alexander
Last Name: Ursu
Student Number: 1004357199
UofT E-mail Address: alexander.ursu@mail.utoronto.ca

Team Member B
-------------
First Name: Ahmed
Last Name: Sirajuddin
Student Number: 999963605
UofT E-mail Address: ahmed.sirajuddin@mail.utoronto.ca

Team Member C (Optional)
-------------
First Name: Gabrian
Last Name: Mak
Student Number: 1003591400
UofT E-mail Address: gabrian.mak@mail.utoronto.ca

Team Member D (Optional)
-------------
First Name: Kelson
Last Name: Xie
Student Number: 1004290037
UofT E-mail Address: kelson.xie@mail.utoronto.ca


Project Plan
-------------

Project Title: Flappy B58ird

Provide a one paragraph description of your project:
The project is a recreation of the famous mobile game Flappy Bird. It is titled
Flappy B58ird (The 8 seen as a B) because we are recreating it in CSCB58.
Connected to the FPGA will be a keyboard and monitor. The space bar on the
keyboard will propel the bird upwards, while the bird falls on its own. The
goal is to make your way through oncoming obstacles, in which there will be a
gap for the bird to fly through. A VGA connection is used to display the bird
and obstacles on the monitor. A score is shown representing the amount of
obstacles the bird has flown through. Main menu to start game, end game screen
displays final score and takes player back to main menu.

What is your plan for the first week?
Necessary aspects of the game implemented with FSM model. Drawing components on
screen with VGA, oncoming obstacles represented by large shift registers and
controlled by timer, bird jumping in place with keyboard.

What is your plan for the second week?
Continuing on same FSM model, determine when the bird has collided with an
obstacle, keep track of score.

What is your plan for the third week?
On a higher-level FSM (or possibly within same FSM), have player navigate from
main menu to playing the game, displaying their score on end game screen once
the game is over, and returning them back to the main menu.

What is your backup plan if things don’t work out as planned?
Spend more time on basic gameplay aspects, just getting the bird the fly up and
fall down, have obstacles approach the bird. Game may just start instantly when
loaded up, game may just stop once the bird hits an obstacle.


Weekly Reports
-------------

Week 1:
We managed to work with a 40-bit wide shift-register and continuously draw its
contents with the VGA, following our FSM. We ran short on time but wanted to
instantiate many more of these registers and manage them all at once,
essentially completing the obstacle portion of the game. This was left for
later as we already have planned out how to easily scale up our current model.
We created modules for a timer which can be used to regulate frame-rate and
obstacle frequency, and a 30-bit wide shift register to represent the bird,
modelled with another FSM. These pieces are to be incorporated in the next lab.

Week 2:
Able to instantiate 30 of our 40-bit shift registers, but have trouble drawing
every bit to the screen in the proper position. Work done on the bird module,
but ran into difficulties with other sub-modules like the rate divider. Will
try to come to extra lab hours to catch up.

Week 3:
All members went to extra lab hours, but our main issues were still unresolved
after much effort. During our actual lab time we are finally able to draw pipes
to the screen correctly and have control over the thickness, speed, space
between them, and pattern. Main issue preventing us from doing so before was
discovered to be a behaviour of Verilog we didn't know about. Work also done on
the Bird module, but some issues arise with its current design. We have an idea
on a quick re-work of the module so we can at least put it together with our
pipes. We also have looked at a previous project to see how to use keyboard
controls, and believe we can incorporate that quickly as well. Hopefully able
to do some sort of collision detection.


References
-------------
<In this space clearly indicate all external sources used in this project. If
you used anyone else's code (from previous B58 projects or other sources)
clearly indicate what you used and where you found it. Usage of any material
not credited in this space will be considered plagiarism. It is absolutely OK
and expected to update this section as you progress in the projected.

Make sure to document what you added on top of the existing work, especially if
you work with a previous project. What is it that YOU added?>


Repo & Video
-------------
<At the end of the project, provide links to your code repository and
presentation video (and passwords if not public)>
